Thank you very much. Now we continue again for teaching. Again, we reactivate our visual
motivation of the yoga, the appreciation of each other, and also a five-part of the state
of our asset. We all are the gracious teacher, bodhisattva devotee, thinking of all that,
and then we follow the teachings. And as we were talking yesterday, I think we've been
talking about now, about the vow itself. When you receive the vows, how that will be, how
you take the vows. The first level is, as I said, this vow is known as the "moralities"
in the teaching shila, or it is like a simple telling, it's ethics or the conduct. So how
we take these vows. And that is then, in the teaching said, is with the thought of renunciation
thoughts. Renunciation is also best upon devotion and pare, f-a-i-t-h, pare. So pare and ren
unciation
thought, you take. And again, I listed it to others. Those are the like, as the progression
of shilas and of moralities, and as well as a kind of higher advantage of the whole, yeah,
higher advantage of the morality, and those are, the past two are not completely as perfect
or the beautiful according to the teaching. The last one is renunciation vow, with the
devotion or pare, that is vows. When you take the vows, vows, so when you take the vows,
what are you taking the vows? You're taking of the, of the, that you're not going to hurt
to anyone, hurt to anyone and know to yourself by the physically and verbally. And how many
physically to do, and those are known as three by three non-virtues of the, of the physicals.
Those are sexual conduct or sexual misconducts, and then as well as taking lives over others
and ceilings. Those are three by the bodhis. Four by the speeches, and lying, slender,
and gossip, and harsh speech. Those are four, those are known as seven negativities that
are including all the additional, I like to give up, it depends what kind of vow you take.
And when you take that vow, and then according again in the different, different schools
of the Buddhism, for example, the Vibhachika school, the Vibhachika school is known as
Chevraanhava, and Vibhachika school, this is the invisible poems. When you take the vow,
it is invisible vow, so that means is a poem, F-O-R-N poems. But then all the other schools,
such as Sri Lanka school, mind-only school, and as well as Madhema school, all the other
schools, Madheana school, all is mind. It is mind, even though it is connected with it.
With it physically and actively, it is in a visible way, but when you choke this vow,
it is in mind. And mind is known as the mind, the determination that you are going to keep
up that, the determination, and keep up that with devotion or with pain, pain and preserving
that with your mind. So except the Vibhachika school, there are all the others, there is
slightly different explaining, but it is all mind, it is all mind. And so that is really
about the nature of the vowels. Now how many vowels, when you take, how many vowels there
is, there is, then add vowels that you take. Those vowels are also known as vowels of the
timely vowels, and as well as the permanent vowels, timely vowels and permanent vowels.
And this is called, in the Tibet, again our right Tibet, but not that. Dutam, dutam, dutam,
dutam, and then tam, then tam is the same, then tam. Dutam, do is time. Time is morality,
it is like abbreviated, cham, so it is morality, morality is all the vowels. If we translate
it, somebody who vowels. So the timely vowels and then the permanent vowels, so there is
three categories. Now these three categories, either all of them, how many vowels? There
is add, add vowels, or seven vowels. And now I will again list now this one, maybe I don't
have to write this, first one is, is, is, giune, that when we take the giune practices, giune,
it is called giune, maybe I will write that too. This is finished now, right? And giune,
so that is the first. And then giune, giune, and then, and getsoro, and then geluma, getsoro.
And then geluma, and gelluma, and gelluma. Okay, so now this is how many are out? One,
two, three, four, and five. And now this is how it becomes eight. Eight. And that is,
this giune is commonly called, I think this is, I mean not this is, giune, giune or giune.
Giune is like timely vowels. How, that is how long we take? Twenty-four hours. From sunshine
to next morning sunshine. To start, from sunshine to the sunshine. From sunshine to the sunshine
is known as deutramma. I wrote, I mean earlier you wrote deutramma, means timely vowels. And
the second is giune, a little bit. In Sanskrit is known as opaskas. Opaskas. So it is Sanskrit,
opaskas. Then next one is getsoro. Getsoro is in Sanskrit, is sharmanara, and in English
I think novus, novus. Right? Novus. Novus. Novus. And then is geluma. It is between vowels.
Geluma is between vowels for the nuns. Between vowels for the nuns. What? I will tell you.
I will tell you. Between vowels of the, the, the, for the nuns. And the geluma is bhuchu
is fully ordent. So that is like now five. I mean those five listed. And now when we make
this ed, I mean not make this, is ed. This is number one. First is giune is number one.
You put number one. Giune is number one. Gheni is two. There is male and female ghenis, opaskas.
And in the Tibet, in the teaching said gheni pamai. So that means father and mother or
male and female, female. And then getsoro, novus mom is not just only mom, it is also
for the nun. So novus, male and female. Novus, male and female. That man, phal. First one
is not really any male and female, guess whoever take that. But is that first one. And second,
third, divide and two, three. So five. And the geluma is for only the nuns, going to,
going to take the full ordination of the nuns once. So it is geluma. That makes six. Six.
And the geluma is buchu. This is not just only male, but also for men and women. So
this is called male and female buchini, or the buchu and buchini. Mother and father and
that all makes the edge. And that edge. Now this is what again in the teaching commentaries
said too. This gheni is just part of the opasca. Part of the opasca. So you concluded the gheni
part of the opasca. So not opasca. Yeah, opasca. That's true. Opasca. So this is like as one.
Then if you just put all together, then it's one, two, three, four. Because the geluma,
this nun, bit of a nun, nun is like neither opasca nor it is buchuni. So therefore kept
as one. So all together is four. Four. Now you understand? No. What do you then understand?
I got eight. No problem. But why are we now at four and why are we doing that? No, this
is just a way of summarizing. Just summarizing. Just summarizing. That's nothing really any
other reasons. Okay. Other reasons. If you say that because it's opasca, male and female
is just opasca. Whether you're male or female, you're opasca. So that's just one. I mean not
really divided by the male and female. Not what they call it. Not sex oriented. Sex oriented.
Yeah, not sex oriented. Just one. It's one. And the second is the gesso. Even if there's
male and female, which is novice, male and female. And even though this is just novice.
So again, just put as one. One. So the geluma is then different because it is not neither
sharpener nor is fully ordained. Therefore, as one independent. And then geluma, which
is in a fully ordained, whether it's men or women, is fully ordained. So therefore just
put one. This is just way how they make it precisely. That's it. There's nothing else
really any other reasons. Okay. Now this, when you take this vase, this yin-yin vase, determine
how many vase you take. This vase, what? Eight. Yeah, eight vase. You take eight vase. This
yin-yin. Yin-yin is like as a junior in a little bit. It's how ever you use the word. The tiny,
short term wow, or timely wow, or short term wow. Short term wow for 24 hours, eight percent
that you take. Eight percent. Eight vase. And the geluma, how much you take? Five. How many?
Five. Five percent you take. And the geluma, this shamanar naosma, how much you take? I
mean, it's all going to tell in a later. So I'm not going to go here now. But geluma,
you take 10 principal vows. But then in the teaching said, even though it is only 10,
the reality, except only 13 vows is different than the fully ordained monks, or monks and
nuns. Only 13 different. Otherwise, you take that vows. Ten principal vows. Geluma is when
you become the naosma nun, then if he like to take the full ordination of the bhukkhuni,
then Buddha gave three years for this geluma vow to kind of like in a way, test the period.
Test the period that whether he can keep up or not. He was able to keep on that. Not is
it like, what's called. So therefore, I said, bidun vow. Or maybe it's test the period,
it's bidun. Naos, nun, and as well as fully ordained. So she keep that. That has 12.
So that means she keep all those vows of the shamanar naosma, or the nosma, nun. Above that,
she has 12 extra vows that she keep for two years. Once she is ready to take the
fully ordained vows of the nuns, then she joins to the fully ordained, or the nun, fully nuns,
fully nuns. And how many these nuns have vows? Nuns have vows, fully ordained monks have vows, 253
vows
of the fully ordained monks have. And 364 for the nuns, fully ordained nuns to keep. So that is
the number of the vows that you take. And so now, this first two, first two are, again you look
over view of this first two, among those eight or four, first two are the late practicing vows.
Yeah,
late practicing vows, which is like short time vows, and as well as of aska. That is late
practice. Last three, or the last, all this that among the eight, then last five are the monastic,
or the nunary vows. So that is the what, what, how you will understand. And then of course is
all quite details in a commentary, so you can read, read that, I mean you will bring that, but, so
then of course also is going to more details later there. So these first two are like the late
practicing vows. And oh yeah, this late practicing vows, again I think is going to talk here. But
late
practicing is this, this, oh yeah, this, maybe I have to talk a little bit this. The late, this
in any practice, you know.